Documentation for the new compound and sequence triggers (#12374)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/concepts/automations.md

### Composite triggers

> To express scenarios involving several kinds of events and metrics, you can use Prefect's `compound` and `sequence` triggers.  These higher-order triggers are composed from a set of underlying `event` and `metric` triggers, and will fire when some defined combination of those triggers do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a trigger from multiple kinds of events and metrics, use a `compound` or`sequence` trigger.  These higher-order triggers are composed from a set of underlying `event` and `metric` triggers.
```

> For example, if you want to run a deployment only after 3 different flows in your workspace have written their results to an S3 bucket, combine them with a 'compound' trigger:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to run a deployment only after three different flows in your workspace have written their results to an S3 bucket, combine them with a 'compound' trigger:
```

```json
{
  "type": "compound",
  "require": "all",
  "within": 3600,
  "triggers": [
    {
      "type": "event",
      "posture": "Reactive",
      "expect": ["prefect.block.remote-file-system.write_path.called"],
      "match_related": {
        "prefect.resource.name": "daily-customer-export",
        "prefect.resource.role": "flow"
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "event",
      "posture": "Reactive",
      "expect": ["prefect.block.remote-file-system.write_path.called"],
      "match_related": {
        "prefect.resource.name": "daily-revenue-export",
        "prefect.resource.role": "flow"
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "event",
      "posture": "Reactive",
      "expect": ["prefect.block.remote-file-system.write_path.called"],
      "match_related": {
        "prefect.resource.name": "daily-expenses-export",
        "prefect.resource.role": "flow"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> This trigger will fire once it sees at least one of each of the underlying event triggers fire, then it will reset its state waiting for the next time these three events all happen again.  The order of the events won't matter, just that all of the events occur within one hour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This trigger will fire once it sees at least one of each of the underlying event triggers fire within the time frame specified. Then the trigger will reset its state and fire the next time these three events all happen.  The order the events occur doesn't matter, just that all of the events occur within one hour.
```

> This trigger will fire once it sees at least one of each of the underlying events happen, then it will reset it's state waiting for the next time these three events all happen again.  The order of the events won't matter, just that they all happen within an hour of one another.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This trigger will fire once it sees at least one of each of the underlying events happen, then it will reset its state waiting for the next time these three events all happen again.  The order of the events won't matter, just that they all happen within an hour of one another.
```

> This trigger will fire once it sees at least one of each of the underlying events happen, then it will reset it's state waiting for the next time these three events all happen again.  The order of the events won't matter, just that they all happen within an hour of one another.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This compound trigger will fire once it sees at least one of each of the underlying events happen, then it will reset its state waiting for the next time these 3 events all happen again.  The order of the events won't matter, just that they all happen within an hour of one another.
```

Using the actual number makes this easier to digest imo

> within an hour of one another
I'm not totally sure this is clear. That makes it sound to me like A could happen at hour 0 and B could happen at hour 1 and C could happen at hour 2 and it would trigger.

Author: Oh great point, that needs to be restated

> If you only want to start looking for those export flow runs after an initial flow run has completed, you can combine the entire previous trigger as the second part of a sequence of two triggers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want a flow run to complete prior to starting to watch for those three events,  you can combine the entire previous trigger as the second part of a sequence of two triggers:
```

> If you only want to start looking for those exports after an initial flow run has completed, you can combine the entire previous trigger as the second part of a sequence of two triggers:

Author: I clarified that a bit

```json
{

>   "type": "sequence",

Reviewer 3: some comments here like  "# top-level trigger" or something could be neat

      }
    },
    {
      "type": "compound",
      "require": "all",
      "within": 3600,
      "triggers": [
        {
          "type": "event",
          "posture": "Reactive",
          "expect": ["prefect.block.remote-file-system.write_path.called"],
          "match_related": {
            "prefect.resource.name": "daily-customer-export",
            "prefect.resource.role": "flow"
          }
        },
        {
          "type": "event",
          "posture": "Reactive",
          "expect": ["prefect.block.remote-file-system.write_path.called"],
          "match_related": {
            "prefect.resource.name": "daily-revenue-export",
            "prefect.resource.role": "flow"
          }
        },
        {
          "type": "event",
          "posture": "Reactive",
          "expect": ["prefect.block.remote-file-system.write_path.called"],
          "match_related": {
            "prefect.resource.name": "daily-expenses-export",
            "prefect.resource.role": "flow"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

In this case, the trigger will only fire if it sees the `daily-export-initiator` flow complete, and then the three files written by the other flows.

> The `within` parameter for compound and sequence triggers iconstrains how close in time (in seconds) the child triggers must fire to satisfy the composite trigger.  For example,if the `daily-export-initiator` flow runs, but the other three flows don't write their result files until three hours later, this trigger won't fire.  Placing these time constraints on the triggers can prevent a misfire if you know that the events will generally happen within a specific timeframe, and you don't want a stray older event to be included in the evaluation of the trigger.  If this isn't a concern for you, you may omit the `within` period, in which case there is no limit to how far apart in time the underlying triggers occur.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `within` parameter for compound and sequence triggers constrains how close in time (in seconds) the child triggers must fire to satisfy the composite trigger.  For example, if the `daily-export-initiator` flow runs, but the other three flows don't write their result files until three hours later, this trigger won't fire.  Placing these time constraints on the triggers can prevent a misfire if you know that the events will generally happen within a specific timeframe, and you don't want a stray older event to be included in the evaluation of the trigger.  If this isn't a concern for you, you may omit the `within` period, in which case there is no limit to how far apart in time the underlying triggers occur.
```

> Any type of triggers may be composed into higher-order composite triggers, including proactive event triggers and metric triggers.  In this example, the trigger will fire if we see flow runs that are stuck in `Pending`, a work pool becoming unready, or the average amount of `Late` work in your workspace going over 10 minutes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Any type of trigger may be composed into higher-order composite triggers, including proactive event triggers and metric triggers.  In the following example, the compound trigger will fire if we see flow runs that are stuck in `Pending`, a work pool becoming unready, or the average amount of `Late` work in your workspace going over 10 minutes:
```

just to differentiate from possibly meaning the previous example

> Any type of trigger may be composed into higher-order composite triggers, including proactive event triggers and metric triggers.  In the following example, the compound trigger will fire if we see any of the following events occur: a flow run stuck in `Pending`, a work pool becoming unready, or the average amount of `Late` work in your workspace going over 10 minutes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any type of trigger may be composed into higher-order composite triggers, including proactive event triggers and metric triggers.  In the following example, the compound trigger will fire if any of the following events occur: a flow run stuck in `Pending`, a work pool becoming unready, or the average amount of `Late` work in your workspace going over 10 minutes:
```

```json
{
  "type": "compound",
  "require": "any",
  "triggers": [
    {
      "type": "event",
      "posture": "Proactive",
      "after": ["prefect.flow-run.Pending"],
      "expect": ["prefect.flow-run.Running", "prefect.flow-run.Crashed"],
      "for_each": ["prefect.resource.id"],
      "match_related": {
        "prefect.resource.name": "daily-customer-export",
        "prefect.resource.role": "flow"
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "event",
      "posture": "Reactive",
      "expect": ["prefect.work-pool.not_ready"],
      "match": {
        "prefect.resource.name": "kubernetes-workers",
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "metric",
      "metric": {
        "name": "lateness",
        "operator": ">",
        "threshold": 600,
        "range": 3600,
        "firing_for": 300
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> For compound triggers, the `require` parameter may be `"any"`, `"all"`, or a number between 1 and the number of child triggers.  In the example above, if you feel that you are receiving too many spurious notifications for issues that resolve on their own, you can specify `{"require": 2}` to express that any **two** of the triggers must fire in order for the compound trigger to fire indicating a more serious problem.  Sequence triggers, on the other hand, always require all of their child triggers to fire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For compound triggers, the `require` parameter may be `"any"`, `"all"`, or a number between 1 and the number of child triggers.  In the example above, if you feel that you are receiving too many spurious notifications for issues that resolve on their own, you can specify `{"require": 2}` to express that any **two** of the triggers must fire in order for the compound trigger to fire.  Sequence triggers, on the other hand, always require all of their child triggers to fire before they fire..
```

Compound triggers are defined as:

| Name         | Type                        | Description                                                                  |
| ------------ | --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **require**  | number, `"any"`, or `"all"` | How many of the underlying triggers must fire for this trigger to fire       |

> | **within**   | time, in seconds            | How close in time the underlying triggers must fire for this trigger to fire |

Reviewer 3: just curious, have we standardized on using "underlying" vs like "child"? I feel like we've been internally calling them child triggers but I'm not sure if that's intuitive to users

Author: Yeah I wasn't sure about calling them "children" either, they're just called "`triggers`" in code.

Reviewer 3: Yeah but we have the `CompoundTriggerChildFiring` table right, which when we bring events to open source will expose that table and naming convention to users, maybe?

> | **triggers** | array of other triggers     |                                                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **triggers** | array of underlying triggers     |                                                                              |
```
or child

Sequence triggers are defined as:

| Name         | Type                    | Description                                                                  |
| ------------ | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **within**   | time, in seconds        | How close in time the underlying triggers must fire for this trigger to fire |

> | **triggers** | array of other triggers |                                                                              |

Reviewer 3: I actually think this info would have been useful at the start

> | **triggers** | array of other triggers |                                                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **triggers** | array of underlying triggers |                                                                              |
```

or child 

I think I might be messing up the table format here 😅

### Composite triggers

> To create a trigger from multiple kinds of events and metrics, use a `compound` or`sequence` trigger.  These higher-order triggers are composed from a set of underlying `event` and `metric` triggers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create a trigger from multiple kinds of events and metrics, use a `compound` or `sequence` trigger.  These higher-order triggers are composed from a set of underlying `event` and `metric` triggers.
```

Any type of trigger may be composed into higher-order composite triggers, including proactive event triggers and metric triggers.  In the following example, the compound trigger will fire if any of the following events occur: a flow run stuck in `Pending`, a work pool becoming unready, or the average amount of `Late` work in your workspace going over 10 minutes:

```json
{
  "type": "compound",
  "require": "any",
  "triggers": [
    {
      "type": "event",
      "posture": "Proactive",
      "after": ["prefect.flow-run.Pending"],
      "expect": ["prefect.flow-run.Running", "prefect.flow-run.Crashed"],
      "for_each": ["prefect.resource.id"],
      "match_related": {
        "prefect.resource.name": "daily-customer-export",
        "prefect.resource.role": "flow"
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "event",
      "posture": "Reactive",
      "expect": ["prefect.work-pool.not_ready"],
      "match": {
        "prefect.resource.name": "kubernetes-workers",
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "metric",
      "metric": {
        "name": "lateness",
        "operator": ">",
        "threshold": 600,
        "range": 3600,
        "firing_for": 300
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> For compound triggers, the `require` parameter may be `"any"`, `"all"`, or a number between 1 and the number of child triggers.  In the example above, if you feel that you are receiving too many spurious notifications for issues that resolve on their own, you can specify `{"require": 2}` to express that any **two** of the triggers must fire in order for the compound trigger to fire.  Sequence triggers, on the other hand, always require all of their child triggers to fire before they fire..

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For compound triggers, the `require` parameter may be `"any"`, `"all"`, or a number between 1 and the number of child triggers.  In the example above, if you feel that you are receiving too many spurious notifications for issues that resolve on their own, you can specify `{"require": 2}` to express that any **two** of the triggers must fire in order for the compound trigger to fire.  Sequence triggers, on the other hand, always require all of their child triggers to fire before they fire.
```
